The Hadoop ecosystem frameworks and
applications
provide such functionality through
several overarching themes and goals.
First, they provide scalability
to store large volumes of data
on commodity hardware.
As the number of systems increase, so
does the chance for
crashes and hardware failures.
They handle fault tolerance to
gracefully recover from these problems.
In addition, they are designed to handle
big data capacity and compressing text
files, graphs of social networks,
streaming sensor data and raster images.
We can add more data
types to this variety.
For any given data type,
you can find several projects in
the ecosystem that support it.
Finally, they facilitate
a shared environment,
allow multiple jobs to
execute simultaneously.
Additionally, the Hadoop ecosystem
includes a wide range of open source
projects backed by a large and
active community.
These projects are free to use and
easy to find support for.
Today, there are over 100
Big Data open source projects,
and this continues to grow, many rely
on Hadoop, but some are independent.
Here is, one way of looking at a subset
of tools in the Hadoop Ecosystem.
This layer diagram is organized
vertically based on the interface.
Lower level interfaces to storage and
scheduling on the bottom and
high level languages and
interactivity at the top.
The Hadoop distributed file system,
or HDFS, is the foundation for
many big data frameworks since it
provides scalable and reliable storage.
As the size of your data increases,
you can add commodity
hardware to HDFS to
increase storage capacity.
So it enables what we call
scaling out of your resources.
Hadoop YARN provide
flexible scheduling and
resource management over the HTFS storage.
Yarn is use at Yahoo to schedule
jobs across 40,000 servers.
MapReduce is a programming model
that simplifies parallel computing.
Instead of dealing with the complexities
of synchronization and scheduling you only
need to give MapReduce two
functions map and reduce.
This programming model is so
powerful that Google previously
used it for indexing websites.
MapReduce, only assumes
a limited model to express data.
Hive, and
Pig are two additional programming models,
on top of MapReduce,
to augment data modeling of MapReduce,
with relational algebra and
data flow modeling, respectively.
Hive was created at Facebook to
issue SQL-like queries using
MapReduce on their data in HDFS.
Pig was created at Yahoo to model
dataflow based programs using MapReduce.
Thanks to YARNs ability to
manage resources, not just for
MapReduce but other programming models.
Giraph was built for
processing large scale graphs efficiently.
For example, Facebook uses Giraph to
analyze the social graphs of its users.
Similarly, Storm, Spark and
Flink were built for
real time and
In-memory processing of big data.
On top of the YARN resource scheduler and
HDFS.
In-memory processing is a powerful
way of running big data applications,
even faster, achieving 100x better
performance for some tasks.
Sometimes your data processing or
tasks are not easily or
efficiently represented using the file and
directory model of storage,
examples of this include collections
of key values or large sparse tables.
NoSQL projects such as
Cassandra MongoDB and
HBase handle all these cases.
Cassandra was created at Facebook and
Facebook also use HBase for
its messaging platform.
Finally, running all this tools requires
a centralized management system for
synchronization, configuration And
to ensure high availability.
Zookeeper, created by Yahoo to
wrangle services named after animals,
performs these duties.
Just looking at the small number
of Hadoop stack components,
we can already see that most of them
are dedicated to data modeling.
Management, and
efficient processing of the data.
In the rest of this course,
we will give you fundamental knowledge and
some practical skills on how to start
modeling and managing your data, and
picking the right tools for this activity
from a plethora of big data tools.